---
layout: default
title: doc
javascript:
  - /javascripts/home.js
---
The Python GTK+ 3 Tutorial
Release:	3.0
Date:	February 12, 2012
This tutorial gives an introduction to writing GTK+ 3 applications in Python.

Prior to working through this tutorial, it is recommended that you have a reasonable grasp of the Python programming language. GUI programming introduces new problems compared to interacting with the standard output (console / terminal). It is necessary for you to know how to create and run Python files, understand basic interpreter errors, and work with strings, integers, floats and Boolean values. For the more advanced widgets in this tutorial, good knowledge of lists and tuples will be needed.

Although this tutorial describes the most important classes and methods within GTK+ 3, it is not supposed to serve as an API reference. Please refer to the GTK+ 3 Reference Manual for a detailed description of the API.

Contents:
1. Installation
1.1. Dependencies
1.2. Prebuilt Packages
1.3. Installing From Source
2. Getting Started
2.1. Simple Example
2.2. Extended Example
3. Basics
3.1. Main loop and Signals
3.2. Properties
4. Layout Containers
4.1. Boxes
4.2. Table
4.3. Grid
5. Label
5.1. Label Objects
5.2. Example
6. Entry
6.1. Entry Objects
6.2. Example
7. Button Widgets
7.1. Button
7.2. ToggleButton
7.3. CheckButton
7.4. RadioButton
7.5. LinkButton
7.6. SpinButton
8. ProgressBar
8.1. ProgressBar Objects
8.2. Example
9. Tree and List Widgets
9.1. The Model
9.2. The View
9.3. The Selection
9.4. Sorting
10. CellRenderers
10.1. CellRendererText
10.2. CellRendererToggle
10.3. CellRendererPixbuf
10.4. CellRendererCombo
10.5. CellRendererProgress
10.6. CellRendererSpin
11. ComboBox
11.1. ComboBox objects
11.2. ComboBoxText objects
11.3. Example
12. IconView
12.1. IconView objects
12.2. Example
13. Multiline Text Editor
13.1. The View
13.2. The Model
13.3. Tags
13.4. Example
14. Menus
14.1. Actions
14.2. UI Manager
14.3. Example
15. Dialogs
15.1. Custom Dialogs
15.2. MessageDialog
15.3. FileChooserDialog
16. Clipboard
16.1. Clipboard Objects
16.2. Example
17. Drag and Drop
17.1. Target Entries
17.2. Drag and Drop Methods and Objects
17.3. Drag Source Signals
17.4. Drag Destination Signals
17.5. Example
18. Glade and Gtk.Builder
18.1. Creating and loading the .glade file
18.2. Accessing widgets
18.3. Connecting Signals
18.4. Builder Objects
18.5. Example
19. Objects
19.1. Inherit from GObject.GObject
19.2. Signals
19.3. Properties
19.4. API
20. Stock Items

Indices and tables
Search Page
